Descriptive statistics allow us to observe that there are more delays at departure than at arrival (it is even noted that in February, planes arrive 
on average five minutes early, whereas they depart on average late). The months with the most delays are January, April, and December; on the other 
hand, February and November have the least delays.

The vast majority of flights depart on time or with a negligible delay, which means that the sample size we will be working with is relatively small. 
The majority of delays are of a duration of two hours or less, suggesting that weather-related delays are likely due to slightly unfavorable weather 
conditions (such as waiting for the rain to lessen before taking off), rather than extremely unfavorable conditions (like an exceptional storm), which 
is consistent with the relative frequency of these two types of events.

Among the recorded delays, very few are attributed to weather conditions, and all of these are very short delays (less than 30 minutes), which aligns 
with the previous observation. These weather-related delays are concentrated in certain months of the year: January, March, August, September, October, 
and December. January, September, and December are indeed months with numerous delays (for all reasons), but this is not the case for March, August, 
and October. Therefore, the overall volume of delays seems decoupled from the volume of weather-related delays, which may be linked to the small amount 
of weather-related delay data. In fact, the total minutes of delay caused by weather is low: it reaches a maximum of 700 minutes in December, which is 
very low given the large number of flights departing and arriving in December.

Delays explained by the weather account for only 0.8% of delays, but it is noteworthy that 95.3% of delays are unexplained, probably due to incomplete 
recording. This is why it seems interesting to ask whether there is a link between weather conditions and delays, as some delays actually related to 
the weather may not have been recorded as such (they might have been left unexplained).

It is observed that the months with the most delays are also the months when the weather changes compared to the previous month. For example, the 
temperature drops sharply in December compared to November; precipitation is much higher in April than in March, while snowfall is much lower in 
April than in March; snowfall is much heavier in January than in December. Furthermore, January, April, and March are also months when atmospheric 
pressure variance is high. In contrast, in February and November (the months with the fewest delays), weather conditions are very similar to those 
of the previous months (except for an outlier in precipitation in November), which leads us to suggest that it might be possible to predict delays 
based on weather conditions, despite the lack of correlation. We believe the mistakes when recording the delays might have a role in this lack of 
correlation, that is why we would like to analyze the topic further thanks to machine learning tools. 